
Beldin:
Hello, I've played computer games basically since they were invented. Aviation and military history enthusiast. Long time Recording Engineer going back to the analog tape days. I started modding games for personal use back in the early 2000s. DCS is the first game where I've attempt to share my efforts with the community.

Citizen:
Hi, I'm Citizen! I've been an avid flightsimmer since I was very young. My first game was Microsoft Flight Simulator 4.0 for the Macintosh, and it was A-10 Attack! by Parsoft that fully cemented my love of the genre. Like many others, I'm also a fan of the Operation Flashpoint/ARMA series, and I keenly remember being annoyed at so many servers transitioning to some weird zombie mod. For better or worse, DCS is the high water mark for military flight simulation, and I'm glad to be a very small part of pushing the genre forward.

Hawkeye60:
I am a 3D modeler, Astronomer, Master gardener: I won the silver plate award at the USA Topsfield Fair, Engineer, Tech addict, Amateur Musician, Flight sim addict! Been flying sims since 1986 on a Apple 2E Sublogic! Bought every sim since!
Eagle Dynamics has been taking my money, and been a member of the DCS community since 2016 but flying it since 2020. Started modeling back im 2017 with Markindel, Crazyeddie and Stonehouse, the best of times.

Odyseus:
Hello, my name is Odyseus. I love all things military. I've started modding back in 2003. I had zero experience but I really wanted to learn. So I joined multiple projects in the ARMA 3 community. I ve been playing video game since I was a little kid and I always like a passion for simulator. Now I've the opportunity to bring some of my work to DCS by helping with the Vietnam War Vessels mod.

Petr005:
I'm a hobby 3d modeler and I've been involved in multiple projects: RHS for Arma 3 and up, various Squad mods and the infamous Burning Lands Vietnam. I find the Vietnam War period interesting as a modeler and look forward to contribute to the Vietnam War Vessels mod.

seabat:
They taught me how to march down the middle of a street when there was perfectly good sidewalks. They said "did you see the bats in the cargo hold?"  I had not so I went to look.  Never saw them but as I actually went to see bats the name stuck. Learning how to do liveries for DCS Modules now.

Showtime 100:
Hello, my name is Tyler, otherwise known as Showtime 100.   I am a Canadian Forces GWOT combat veteran who served in Afghanistan in 2006, 2009, and 2012.  I got into flight sims around 2005 with the Falcon 4.0 allied force sim. Ever since then, I have been hooked,  which led me to become a licensed pilot in 2019.  

sinzov:
Hello, sinzov here.  I’ve loved aircraft since I was a child. I’m not a hard-core simmer, but I enjoy watching elegant planes soar through beautiful environments, whether in FSX, SF2, or DCS. I also like retexturing aircraft whenever real-life commitments allow. Above all, I make a clear distinction between simulators and reality—war is a crime, and  should never be glorified.

Spino:
Hi, Spino here!  I got into flight simming about ten years ago with the Microsoft Flight Simulator series.  My first combat sim was CFS3, which really got me hooked on combat aircraft simulation.  About five years ago I discovered DCS, fell in love with it, and never looked back since.

TeTeT:
I'm TeTeT, a long term DCS and Arma 3 player. I started modding with Arma 3 and expanded late 2023 into DCS. I've been interested in the Vietnam War since a long time, played various boardgames like VG Vietnam, Downtown, Silver Bayonet, Platoon back in the day. Since 2014 I joined the Arma3 Unsung Vietnam War mod team and now run Vietnam War Vessels for DCS. We're building and rigging assets for the Vietnam War era and focus on AI assets.

toan:
I'm an aeronautics enthusiast and I have been using DCS since 2020. Because I'm also a pilot and amateur sailor, I'm quite addicted with DCS naval assets and naval aviation, testing large carrier groups battles, and enjoy testing multiple ships, aircraft and weapons.

Whiplash:
I'm Pedro a.k.a "Whiplash" from the beautiful country of Portugal. I'm a modder and one of the developers behind the S.O.G. Prairie Fire and Spearhead 1944 DLCs for Arma 3. I am deeply passionate about gaming, particularly within the Mil-Sim and Flight-Sim genres and everything Vietnam War related.
